hey everyone laszlo Montgomery here with
more Robert fortune welcome to the China
vintage hour were part of a teacup media
empire in today's selection we're
continuing on with more from Robert
fortunes 1847 work three years
wanderings in the northern provinces of
China today were treated to Robert
fortunes observations sailing down the
Pearl River near Canton his visits to
temples near ningbo and his thoughts
about Buddhism in addition to fortunes
and counters with Buddhist monks and
priests were treated to his adventures
mixing with some of the local toughs
rolling up on him trying to rip him off
and mete out some bodily injury this was
eighteen forty four foreigners though
new to most parts of China outside of
Guangdong Province already had acquired
somewhat of a bad name thanks to the
harsh terms of the Treaty of Nanjing as
well as their heavy-handed ways and
unwillingness to do things in a way that
respected basic chinese sensibilities
our narrator continues on in this piece
about his outrage at how the Chinese
treated him and other foreigners but
again you'll hear loudly and clearly
from fortunes tone his sometimes
contempt for Chinese ways and you'll
probably notice fortune commits the same
unpardonable offense of gross
generalizations above what he saw and
applying that to all of China and the
Chinese mind you this was only his first
trip to China and though he had traveled
more than most foreigners it's always a
bit of a hoot to me to hear how some
people take a little bit of knowledge
and speak as if they held a PhD and for
honorary degrees on the subject well if
RF was trying to puff himself up a bit
about how much he knew about China he
certainly wasn't the last China expert
to do so so let's get on with today's
passage of the China vintage hour
brought to you by teacup media where in
the year 1840 for an election year here
in the united states james k polk was
running against henry clay well here we
go as the island of joe shawn was my
headquarters
the north of China a now proceeded
thither with my collections from
Shanghai preparatory to sailing for Hong
Kong in the southern ports of the
country the Joe Sean hills were now
covered with snow and the weather was
piercingly cold large quantities of
pheasants and waterfowl were daily
brought to the markets by the Chinese
who found the English good customers a
small species of deer was also brought
from the mainland and frequently alive
four or five fine pheasants were often
to be purchased for a dollar and Duncan
teal were also remarkably cheap I
believe from two to four rupees were
generally given for a deer the officers
of the troops stationed at Joe Sean who
were fond of shooting obtained excellent
sport by engaging Chinese boats and
going across to the hills on the
mainland there being little game of any
kind upon the island itself having got
all my things packed i took a passage in
a vessel bound for the south and having
a fair monsoon down the China Sea we
arrived at Hong Kong in a few days
without anything occurring worthy of
notice the various collections which I
had made in the north were now put up in
glazed cases and shipped for England as
the south of China had been ransacked by
former botanist I could not expect to
find much which was new or worthy of
being sent home and I therefore arranged
to proceed north again in March or April
in order to have a whole season before
me in the meantime as I had a few weeks
to spare in the south I determined on a
visit to Canton and Macau which are both
within a short distance from Hong Kong
the Canton river is certainly one of the
most imposing and striking objects which
the traveler meets with in this
celebrated country the sea near its
mouth is studded all over with numerous
islands of which a good view is obtained
and going over from Hong Kong to Macau
and in sailing from either of these
places to can time we passed the
succession of them most of which are
mountainous having huge masses of rock
and yellow gravely clay protruding hair
and there through the surface but thinly
covered with vegetation of any kind
sometimes however in our progress we
obtained views of beautiful
baise with a few acres of level land
near the shore in the midst of which
there are some pretty houses or huts
surrounded by a few trees and shrubs in
sailing amongst these islands one is apt
to think that in the retirement of such
places far removed from the vicious
world and the busy hum of men the
inhabitants must indeed be happy and
innocent having their few wants
abundantly supplied by the rice which
grows luxuriously around their dwellings
and by the never failing supply of
excellent fish which are easily caught
in the sea but these dreams of happiness
and innocence are soon dispelled these
quiet villages are bound with pirates
who frequently commit acts of the most
cold-blooded cruelty and render the
passage between Hong Kong Canton and
Macau and alarming and dangerous affair
loire cheese and other small vessels
with valuable cargoes on board are
frequently attacked the crew and
passengers murdered and the vessels
disabled or destroyed a few hours sail
with a fair wind and tide brought me in
sight of the celebrated Boca Tigres the
entrance to the Canton River the fort's
destroyed during the war had been
rebuilt on a more extensive scale and if
man with English soldiers no hostile
fleet in the world could pass them
without being blown to pieces I fancy
however that the Chinese although they
have had a lesson in the art of war
which will make them more difficult to
conquer and future would still with all
their forts afford but a feeble
resistance against the military and
naval tactics of the English and other
civilized nations of the West inside the
Bogue the river widens very much and
presents the appearance of an inland sea
the view now becomes beautiful and
highly picturesque the flat cultivated
land near the shores forming a striking
contrast to the barren hills on the
outside of the fort's the mountains in
the distance appear to encircle the
extensive plain and although like the
others they are barren yet they make a
fine background to the picture a few
miles further up the river the shipping
and Blenheim and one power reaches
column into view and
a celebrated Whampoa pagoda with several
more of less note besides numerous other
towers and jaws houses all remind the
traveler that he is approaching the
far-famed City of Canton one of the
richest and most important in the
celestial Empire the noble river with
its numerous ramifications forms many
islands on one of which the small town
or village of Whampoa is built after
having been several months in the north
of China and with one or two exceptions
always experiencing the greatest civil
tea from the natives I was beginning to
form a high opinion of the Chinese as a
nation and inclined to trust the people
about canton in the same manner as I had
done in the northern provinces I very
soon however found out my mistake and in
a most disagreeable manner there were
some hills behind the city few miles
distant which I'd often wish to visit
for the purpose of examining their
botanical productions one morning I
started off through the town in the
direction of these hills and after
walking between two and three miles I
reached the suburbs on the side of the
town opposite to that where the foreign
factory stands the sounds of fun way
with which I was assailed in the early
part of my walk had now nearly ceased
and I began to imagine that I had got
out from amongst the impertinent boys
and low Chinese whom one continually
meets in the back streets of Canton I
was now on a good road amongst fields
and gardens and had an excellent view of
the surrounding country and hills a very
strange thought I that the foreign
residents and the factories never avail
themselves of the opportunity of coming
here when they might enjoy the fresh air
and see the country which would help to
relieve the monotonous life they are
compelled to lead as i was walking
quietly along I'm at a Chinese soldier
on horseback who by gestures and words
did everything in his power to induce me
to retrace my steps I knew nothing of
the Canton dialect at this time and as I
thought he only wished to prevent me
from taking a walk in the country I paid
no attention to him but passed on words
soon afterwards however I began to
suspect the hill intentions of several
groups of ill-looking fellows who seemed
to be eyeing me narrow
as I proceeded I now came to a little
hill which seemed to be used as a
cemetery it was enclosed but the door
which led to it was wide open and the
place appeared to be quite public in
order to have a more extended view of
the country I walked in and began to
ascend the hill I had only proceeded
about halfway up when a number of
Chinamen who had followed me in began to
crowd around me asking for shaws and
becoming every moment more numerous and
urgent I tried what civility would do
with them for a little while but by the
time I reached the top of the hill and
clearly perceived that I was in a trap
out of which it would be a difficult
matter to extricate myself up to this
time however no one had attempted to lay
hands upon me taking a cursory review of
the surrounding country i began to
devise in my mind the best mode of
getting rid of my troublesome companions
there seemed no other way than putting a
bold face on the matter and retracing my
steps to khant on you more better come
down this way set a fellow to me and
broken English pointing to a ravine on
the opposite side of the hill my
suspicions however were now roused and I
saw it once the object of my advisor
which was to get me into some place out
of sight where I should doubtless have
been robbed of every article I had about
my person and probably stripped into the
bargain no no said I I have nothing to
do down there and began to retrace my
steps down the hill the Chinese now
closed upon me and seemed determined to
obstruct my progress some laid hold of
my arms one fellow seized my cap and ran
off with it another did the same with my
umbrella several hands were in my
pockets and others were even attempting
to get my coat off I now saw that
nothing short of getting everything I
possessed would satisfy them as each one
wanted something and their name was
legion collecting all my strength I
threw myself upon those who were below
me and sent several of them rolling down
the side of the hill this however was
nearly fatal to me for owing to the
force which I exerted and the uneven
nature of the ground I stumbled and fell
but fortunately I instantly recovered
myself and renewed the unequal struggle
my object being to reach the door of the
cemetery by which I had entered the
Chinese on the hill now called out to
their friends below to shut the door and
thus prevent me from reaching the open
road seeing at once that if this were
accomplished I should be an easy prey to
them I determined if possible to prevent
it springing out of the grasp of those
by whom I was surrounded I made for the
door which I reached just as it was
closed but fortunately before it was
fastened on the other side the force
with which I came against it burst did
open and through the on their
backs who were busily fastening it I was
now in the open road where some hundreds
of the Chinese were congregated together
some of them apparently respectable but
the greater part evidently nothing but
thieves and robbers the respectable part
would not or probably Durst not render
me any assistance stones were now flying
about me in all directions and a brick
struck me with a great force on the back
and nearly brought me to the ground I
was stunned for a few seconds and leaned
against the wall to breathe and recover
myself thinking that I was now
comparatively safe as I was out in the
open road I was soon undeceived however
for the rascals again surrounded me and
relieved me of several articles which
had escaped them before and as the whole
neighborhood was evidently a bad one it
would have been madness to have taken
shelter in any of the houses and I
therefore had to struggle with the
robbers for nearly a mile sometimes
fighting and sometimes running until I
got out of their territory and near the
more populous parts of the town the
plight I was now in may easily be
conceived but taking everything into
account I came off better than might
have been expected on my way home having
neither hatch nor umbrella I suffered
greatly from exposure to the Sun which
in the south of China is very powerful
on a clear day even in spring who would
have gladly gone into a shop and bought
a Chinese had but the rascals had not
left me even a copper cash for the
purpose fortunately I had left my watch
at home otherwise that would have been
taken amongst the first things as
Chinese thieves are very partial to
watches and know their value well the
Honourable FC Drummond with whom I was
staying at the time informed me
afterwards that the place where I had
been attacked
was one of the worst in the suburbs of
Canton and that three gentlemen of his
acquaintance a year or two before had
come off even worse than I had done the
Chinese haven't taken away nearly all
their clothes about two years after this
attack upon me three gentlemen holding
government appointments in China mr.
Montgomery Martin the Reverend V Stanton
and mr. Jackson having incautiously
strolled into the suburbs were also
attacked and the letter which they
addressed officially to Her Majesty's
Consul complaining of the treatment they
had received shows so clearly the state
of things at Canton that I give it
entire quote about seven o'clock this
morning while walking for exercise along
the north wall on the outside of the
city we were attacked by several Chinese
who have been following us and
increasing in numbers from the building
known to foreigners as the five storied
pagoda at first they commenced by
throwing stones which endangered our
lives and buy some of which we were
struck this attack was aided and
encouraged by a number of Chinese who
followed us along the top of the city
wall hurling large stones which if they
had struck would have killed those at
whom they were aimed mr. Jackson was
first attacked by men brandishing swords
and daggers his arms were pinioned and
his gold chains snatched from his neck
the Reverend mr. Stanton and mr. Martin
perceiving that mr. Jackson was not
following return to aid him and were
themselves seized one of the assailants
thrust a dagger at mr. Martin's breast
to endeavor to throw him on the ground
and while struggling with them his
pockets were rifled the same of course
was pursued with mr. Jackson and mr.
Stanton the latter lost his watch the
former still retained his but everything
else was taken the assailants then left
us but the persons on the wall followed
us for some time hurling large stones
and using menacing gestures and
opprobrious language proceeding
southward beneath the wall to reach to
the other side we were again followed an
attack by another party mr. Jackson
received a violent blow on his chest and
a roof was torn up to furnish large
sticks to the assailants in this attack
mr. Jackson was deprived of his watch
our clothes were torn and at one time
the people were disposed to strip us no
resistance was offered it was hopeless
to have attempted it not only by reason
of the numbers and weapons of the
multitude but also on account of the
attack on us from the watchtower and
along the walls the outrage was entirely
unprovoked our own official character
and the presence of a minister of
religion was a guarantee for peaceful
conduct and hid his presence not
restrained mr. Jackson and mr. Martin
bloodshed might probably have ensued
reaching the more populous part of the
suburbs we rested a moment and then
proceeded home but not unfrequently
herring appropriate epithets mingled
with cries of kill them kill them from
no nation in Europe with British
subjects suffer this treatment there can
be no excuse for tolerating a
continuance of such conduct towards us
in China and we think there cannot be a
doubt that the Chinese government have
it in their power effectually to put a
stop not only to the personal insults
which the English daily experience but
also to prohibit effectually the
repetition of the injuries we have
experienced by the prohibition to enter
the City of Canton the lower classes of
the Chinese are encouraged to regard us
as inferiors and to treat us with marked
contumely no measures that we are aware
of have ever been taken by the
authorities to prevent the constant
insults to which the British community
are subjected and which instead of
diminishing by time are being subdued by
acts of kindness seemed to become more
frequent and more virulent anxiously
desirous to maintain peace and to
promote Amity we make this
representation believing that unless the
Chinese authorities remedy the evils
complained of the most serious
consequences must inevitably and ere
long and sue end quote having dispatched
my collections to England by three
different vessels from Hong Kong I
sailed again at the end of March 1844
for the northern provinces during the
summer of this year and in that of 1845
I was able to visit several parts the
country which were formerly sealed to
Europeans and which contains subjects of
much interest about the beginning of may
I set out upon an excursion with mr. Tom
the British consul and two other
gentlemen to visit the green tea
district near Ning ball we were informed
that there was a large and celebrated
temple named tint on
in the center of the T district and
about 20 miles distant where we could
lodge during our stay in this part of
the country 12 or 14 miles of our
journey was performed by water but the
canal ending at the foot of the hills we
were obliged to walk or take chairs for
the remainder of the way the mountain
traveling chair of China is a very
simple contrivance it consists merely of
two long bamboo poles with a board
placed between them for a seat and two
other cross pieces one for the back and
the other for the feet a large Chinese
umbrella is held over the head to afford
protection from the Sun and rain the
Chinese are quite philosophers after
their own fashion on our way to the
temple when tired with sitting so long
in our boat we several times got out and
walked along the path on the sides of
the canal a great number of passage
boats going in the same direction with
ourselves and crowded with passengers
kept very near us for a considerable
portion of the way in order to satisfy
their curiosity a never walks
when he can possibly find any other mode
of conveyance and these persons were
consequently much surprised to see us
apparently enjoying our walk is it not
strange said one that these people
prefer walking when they have a boat as
well as ourselves a discussion now took
place amongst them as to the reason of
this apparently strange propensity when
one more wise than his companion settled
the matter by the pithy observation it
is their nature to do so which was
apparently satisfactory to all parties
it was nearly dark when we reached the
temple and as the rain had fallen in
torrents during the greater part of the
day we were drenched to the skin and in
rather a pitiable condition the priests
seemed much surprised at our appearance
but at once events the greatest
hospitality and kindness and we soon
found ourselves quite at home amongst
them they brought us fire to dry our
clothes got ready our dinner and set
apart a certain number of their best
rooms for us to sleep in we were
evidently subjects of great curiosity to
most of them who had never seen an
Englishman before our clothes features
mode of eating and manners were all
subjects of wonder to these simple
people who passed off many a
good-humoured
look at our expense glad to get off our
clothes which were still damp we retired
early to rest when we arose in the
morning the view which met our eyes far
surpassed in beauty any scenery which I
have ever witnessed before in China the
temple stands at the head of a fertile
valley in the bosom of the hills this
valley is well watered by clear streams
which flow from the mountains and
produces most excellent crops of rice
the tea shrubs with their dark green
leaves are seen dotted on the lower
sides of all the more fertile hills the
temple itself is approached by a long
avenue of Chinese pine trees this Avenue
is at first straight but near the temple
it winds into a most picturesque Manor
round the edges of two artificial lakes
and then ends in a flight of stone steps
which lead up to the principal entrance
behind and on each side the mountains
rise in irregular ridges from one to two
thousand feet above the level of the sea
these are not like the bear and southern
mountains but are clothed nearly to
their summits with a dense tropical
looking mass of brushwood shrubs and
trees some of the finest bamboos of
China are grown in the ravines and the
sombre colored pine attains to a large
size on the sides of the hills here too
I observe some very beautiful specimens
of the new fur cryptomeria japonica and
obtained some plants and seeds of it
which may now be seen growing in the
horticultural gardens at chizik after we
had breakfasted one of the head priests
came and gave us a very pressing
invitation to dine with him about midday
and in the meantime he accompanied us
over the monastery of which he gave the
following history quote many hundred
years ago a pious old man retired from
the world and came to dwell in these
mountains giving himself up entirely to
the performance of religious duties so
earnest was he in his devotions that he
neglected everything related to his
temporal wants even to his daily food
Providence however would not suffer so
good a man to starve some boys were sent
in a miraculous manner who daily
supplied him with food in the course of
time the fame of the same
extended all over the adjacent country
and disciples flocked to him from all
quarters a small range of temples was
built and thus commenced the extensive
buildings which now beer the name of
tintin or the temple of the heavenly
boys 10 signifying heaven and tong a boy
at last the old man died but his
disciples supplied his place the fame of
the temple spread far and wide and voter
ease came from the most distant parts of
the empire one of the Chinese Kings
being amongst the number to worship and
leave their offerings at its altars
larger temples were built in front of
the original ones and these again in
their turn gave way to those spacious
buildings which form the principal part
of the structure of the present day all
the temples are crowded with idols or
images of their favorite gods such as
the three precious Buddha's the Queen of
Heaven represented as sitting on the
celebrated Lotus orn alum biam the god
of war and many other deified kings and
great men of former days many of these
images are from 30 to 40 feet in height
and have a very striking appearance when
seen arranged in these spacious and
lofty halls the priests themselves
reside in a range of low buildings
erected at right angles with the
different temples and courts which
divide them each has a little temple in
his own house a family altar crowded
with small images where he is often
engaged in private devotion after
inspecting the various temples and the
belfry which contains a noble bronze
Bell of large dimensions our hosts
conducted us back to his house where the
dinner was already on the table the
priests of the Buddhist religion are not
allowed to eat animal food at any of
their meals our dinner therefore
consisted entirely of vegetables served
up in the usual Chinese style in a
number of small round basins the
contents of each soups accepted being
cut up into small square bits to be
eaten with chopsticks the Buddhist
priests contrived to procure a number of
vegetables of different kinds which by a
peculiar mode of preparation are
rendered very palatable in fact so
nearly did they resemble animal food and
taste and an appearance that at first we
were deceived imagining that the little
bits we were able to get hold
of with our chopsticks were really
pieces of fowl or beef such however was
not the case as our good host was
consistent on this day at least and had
nothing but vegetable productions at his
table several other priests set with us
at table and a large number of others of
inferior rank with servants crowded
around the doors and windows outside the
whole assemblage must have been much
surprised at the awkward way in which
some of us handled our chopsticks and
with all their politeness i observed
they could not refrain from laughing
when after repeated attempts some little
dainty morsel would still slip back
again into the dish and a few things
more annoying and yet laughable to then
attempting to eat with the Chinese
chopsticks for the first time more
particularly if the operator has been
wandering on the hills all the morning
and is ravenously hungry the instruments
should first of all be balanced between
the thumb and fourth finger of the right
hand the points are next to be brought
carefully together just leaving as much
room as will allow the coveted Marsal to
go in between them the little bit is
then to be neatly seized but alas in the
act of lifting the hand one point of the
chopstick too often slips past the other
and the object of all our hopes drops
back again into the dish or perhaps even
into another dish on the table again and
again the same operation is tried until
the poor novice loses all patients
throws down the chopsticks and despair
and seizes a porcelain spoon with which
he is more successful in cases like
these the Chinese themselves are very
obliging although scarcely in a way
agreeable to an Englishman's taste your
Chinese friend out of kindness and
politeness when he sees the dilemma in
which you are reaches across the table
and seizes with his own chopsticks which
have just come out of his mouth the
wished-for morsel and with them lays it
on the plate before you in common
politeness you must express your
gratitude and swallow the offering
during dinner our host informed us that
there were about a hundred priests
connected with the monastery but that
many were always absent on missions to
various parts the country on questioning
him as to the mode by which the
establishment was supported he informed
us that a considerable portion of land
and the vicinity belonged to the temple
and that large sums were yearly raised
from the sale of bamboos which are here
very excellent
the branches of trees and brushwood
which are made up in bundles for
firewood a number of tea and rice farms
also belong to the priests which they
themselves cultivate besides the sums
raised by the sale of these productions
a considerable revenue must be derived
from the contributions of the devotees
who resort to the temple for religious
purposes as well as from the sums
collected by those of the order who are
out on begging excursions at stated
seasons of the year the priest sir of
course of all grades some of them being
merely the servants of the others both
in the house and in the fields they seem
a harmless and simple race but are
dreadfully ignorant and superstitious
the typhoon of the previous year are
rather the rain which had accompanied it
had occasioned a large slip of Earth on
one of the hillsides near the temple and
completely buried 10 or 12 acres of
excellent patty land and are remarking
this the priest told us with great
earnestness that everyone said it was a
bad omen for the temple but one of them
with true Chinese politeness remarked
that he had no doubt any evil influence
would now be counteracted since the
temple had been honored for the visit
from us after inspecting the tea farms
in the mode of manufacturing it mr. town
Mr Morrison a son of the late dr.
Morrison and mr. Sinclair returned
inning ball leaving me to prosecute my
research in Natural History in this part
of the country I was generally absent
from the temple the whole day returning
at dark with the collections of plants
and birds which I had been lucky enough
to meet with in my peregrinations the
friends of the priests came from all
quarters of the adjacent country to see
the foreigner and his in the case of a
wild animal my feeding time seemed to be
the most interesting moment to them my
dinner was placed on a round table in
the center of the room and although
rather curiously concocted being half
chinese and half english the exercise
and fresh air of the mountains gave me a
keen appetite the difficulties of the
chopsticks were soon got over and I was
able to manage them nearly as well as
the Chinese themselves the priests and
their friends filled the chairs which
are always placed down the sides of a
Chinese hall each man with his pipe in
his mouth and his cup of tea by his side
with all the deference to my hosts and
his friends I was obliged to request the
smoking to be stopped as it was
disagreeable to me while at dinner
other respects I believe I was polite
enough I shall never forget how
inexpressibly lonely I felt the first
night after the departure of my friends
the Chinese one by one dropped off to
their homes or to bed and at last my
host himself gave several unequivocal
yawns which reminded me that it was time
to retire for the night my bedroom was
upstairs and to get to it I had to pass
through a small temple such as I have
already noticed dedicated to tenho or
the Queen of Heaven and crabbed with
other idols incense was burning on the
altar in front of the aisles a solitary
lamp shed a dim light over the objects
in the room and a kind of solemn
stillness seemed to pervade the whole
place in the room below and also in one
in an adjoining house I could hear the
priests engage in their devotional
exercises in that singing tone which is
peculiar to them then the sounds of the
gong fell upon my ears and at intervals
a single solemn toll of the large bronze
Bell and belfry all which showed that
the priests were engaged in public as
well as private devotion amid scenes of
this kind in a strange country far from
friends and home impressions are apt to
be made upon the mind which remain vivid
through life and I feel convinced I
shall never forget the strange mixture
of feelings which filled my mind during
the first night of my stay with the
priests in the temple of ten Tong I
visited the place off it says pass
through the same little temple slept in
the same bed and heard the same solemn
sounds throughout the silent watches of
the night and yet the first impressions
remain in my mind distinct and single
the priests from the highest to the
lowest always showed me the most marked
attention and kindness as many of them
as I wished cheerfully followed me and
my excursions in the vicinity of the
temple one carrying my specimen paper
another my plan sent a third my birds
and so on the gun seemed an object of
great interest to them being so
different from their own clumsy
matchlocks and percussion caps were
looked upon as most magical little
objects but they were great cowards and
always kept in a most respectful
distance when I was shooting one evening
a deputation had
the high priest came and informed me
that the wild boars had come down from
the mountains at night and were
destroying the young shoots of the
bamboo which were then just coming
through the ground and were in the state
in which they are highly prized as a
vegetable for the table well said I what
do you want me to do will you be good
enough to lend us the gun yes there it
stands in the corner of the room oh but
you must load it for us very well I will
then I immediately loaded the gun with
ball there but take care and don't shoot
yourselves there was now a long pause
none had sufficient courage to take the
gun and a long consultation was held
between them at length the spokesman
came forward with great gravity and told
me they were afraid to fire it off but
that if I would go with them and shoot
the boer I should have it to eat this
was certainly no great sacrifice on the
part of the Buddhist priesthood who do
not or at least should not eat animal
food we now sallied forth in a body to
fight the wild boars but the night was
so dark that we could see nothing in the
bamboo ravines and perhaps the noise
made by about 30 priests and servants
warned the animals to retire to the
brushwood higher up the hills be that as
it may we could neither see nor hear
anything of them and I confessed I was
rather glad than otherwise as I thought
there was a considerable chance of my
shooting by mistake a priest instead of
a wild boar the priests have two modes
of protecting their property from the
ravages of these animals deep pits are
dug on the hillsides and as there are
Springs and almost all these places the
pits are scarcely finished before they
are half full of water the mouths of
each pit has then covered over with the
quantity of sticks rubbish and grass to
attract the animal and no sooner does he
begin to bar into it with a snout then
the whole gives way and he has plunged
headforemost into the pit from which it
is quite impossible for him to extricate
himself and he is either drown or
becomes an easy prey to the Chinese
these pits are most dangerous traps to
persons unacquainted with the localities
in which they are placed I had several
narrow escapes and once in particular
when coming out of a dense mass of
brushwood I stepped unawares on the
treacherous mouth of one of them and
felt the ground under my feet actually
giving way but managing to throw my arms
fall
I caught hold of a small twig which was
growing there and by this means
supported myself until I was able to
scramble out to firmer ground I'm
turning back to examine the place I
found that the loose rubbish had sunk in
and a deep pit half full of water was
exposed to my view the pit was made
narrow at the mouth and widening inside
like a great China vase being
constructed in this manner to prevent
the boar from scrambling out when once
fairly in it had I fallen in it would
have been next to impossible to have
extricated myself without assistance and
as the pits are generally dug and the
most retired and wild part of the
mountains my chance would have been a
bad one there are a large number of
Buddhist temples scattered all over this
part of the country one name I you Wang
which I also visited is like tenting of
great extent and seemingly well
supported they both have large tracts of
land in the vicinity of the monasteries
and have numerous small temples in
different parts of the district which
are under their control all the temples
both large and small are built to the
most romantic and beautiful situations
amongst the hills and the neighboring
woods are always preserved and
encouraged what would indicate the
residents of a country gentleman in
England is in China the sign of a
Buddhist temple and this holds good
overall the country when the weary
traveler therefore who has been exposed
for hours to the fierce rays of an
Eastern Sun sees a large clean looking
house showing itself amongst the trees
on the distant hillside he may be almost
certain that it is one of Buddhist
temples where the priest will treat him
not only with courtesy but with kindness
puto or worshipping island as it is
commonly called by foreigners is one of
the eastern islands and the Joel Sean
archipelago and seems to be the capital
or stronghold of Buddhism and this part
of China this island is not more than
five or six miles in circumference and
although hilly its sides and small
ravines are pretty well wooded
particularly in the vicinity of the
numerous temples as it is only a few
hours sail from Josh on it has been
visited at different times by a number
of our officers during the war all of
whom spoke highly of its natural
beauties and richness of
tation I therefore determined to visit
the place in order to judge for myself
and accordingly set out in July 1844
accompanied by my friend mr. Maxwell of
the Madras army leaving Joe Shauna at
night with the tide in our favor we
reached the island at sunrise on the
following morning we landed and pursued
our way over a hill and down on the
other side by a road which led us into a
beautiful and romantic Glen it is here
that the principal group of temples is
built and when we first caught glimpse
of them as we wended our way down the
hill they seem like a town of
considerable size as we approached
nearer the view became highly
interesting in front there was a large
artificial pond filled with the broad
green leaves and noble red and white
flowers of the alum biam specie awesome
a plant in high favor with the Chinese
everybody who went to poop all admired
these beautiful water lilies in order to
reach the monastery we crossed a very
ornamental bridge built over this pond
which when viewed in a line with an old
tower close by as a pretty and striking
appearance the temples are halls which
contain the idols are extremely spacious
and resemble those which I have already
described at ten Tong and I you on these
idols many of which are 30 or 40 feet in
height are generally made of wood or
clay and then richly guilt there was one
small temple however of a very
unassuming appearance where we met with
some exquisite bronze statues which
would be considered of great value in
England these of course were much
smaller than the others but viewed as
works of art they were by far the finest
which I saw during my travels in China
having examined these temples we pursued
our way towards another assemblage of
them about two miles to the eastward and
closed on the seashore we entered the
courts through a kind of triumphal arch
which looks out upon the sea and found
that these temples were constructed upon
the same plan as all the others as we
had determined to make this part of the
island our home during our stay we fixed
upon the cleanest looking temple and
asked the high priest to allow us
without further delay to put our beds
and travelling baggage into it
and the following day we inspected
various parts of the island besides the
large temples just noticed there are
about 60 or 70 smaller ones built on all
the hillsides each of which contains
three or four priests who are all under
the superior or Abbott who resides near
one of the large temples even on the top
of the highest hill probably 1,500 or
1,800 feet above the level of the sea we
found a temple of considerable size and
an excellent repair there are winding
stone steps from the sea beach all the
way up to this temple and a small
resting place about halfway up the hill
where the weary devotee may rest and
drink of the refreshing stream which
flows down the sides of the mountain and
in the little temple close at hand which
is also crowded with idols he can
supplicate Buddha for strength to enable
him to reach the end of his journey we
were surprised to find a Buddhist temple
in such excellent order as the one on
the summit of the hill proved to be in
it is a striking fact that almost all
these places are crumbling fast into
ruins there are a few exceptions and
cases where they happen to get a good
name amongst the people from the
supposed kindness of the gods but the
great mass are in a state of decay from
the upper temple on boot wash on the
view is strikingly grand rugged
mountains are seen rising one above
another and capped with clouds hundreds
of islands some fertile others rocky and
barren lay scattered over the sea when
we looked in one direction amongst the
islands the water was yellow and muddy
but to the eastward the deep blue ocean
had resumed its usual color and the line
between the yellow waters and the blue
was distinctly and curiously marked the
island of poo pah is set apart entirely
as a residence for the priests of the
Buddhist religion few other persons are
allowed to live there and these are
either servants or in some way connected
with the priests no women are permitted
to reside on the island it being against
the principles of the Buddhists to allow
their priests to marry the number of
priests are estimated at 2,000 but many
of them are constantly absent on begging
expeditions for the support of their
religion this establishment like 10
tongue
also a portion of land allotted to it
for its support and the remainder of the
funds are made up by the subscriptions
of the devotees and certain high days at
different periods of the year many
thousands of both sexes but particularly
females resort to these temples clad in
their best attire to pay their vows and
engage in the other exercises of heathen
worship little stalls are then seen in
the temples or at the doorways for the
sale of incense candles paper made up in
the form of the ingots of silver
and other holy things which are
considered acceptable offerings to the
gods and are either consumed in the
temples or carried home to bring a
blessing upon the houses and families of
those who purchase them the profits of
these sales of course go to the support
of the establishment when we consider
that these poor deluded people sometimes
travel a distance of several hundred
miles to worship in the temples of puto
Jean and other celebrated places we
cannot but admire their spirit of
devotion I was once staying in the
temple of ten Tong when it was visited
for three days by devotees from all
parts of the country as they lined the
roads on their way to the temple clad in
the graceful and flowing costume of the
east the mind was naturally led back to
those days of scripture history when
Jerusalem was in its glory and the Jews
that chosen people of God came from afar
to worship in its temple although no
Christian can look upon the priests and
devotees of the Buddhist Creed without
him I of pity yet he must give them
credit for their conduct since he has
every reason to believe them sincere and
I am inclined to believe that justice
has not been done them in this respect
mr. boots laughs in describing his visit
to puto is of a different opinion he
says quote we were present at the
Vespers of the priests which they
chanted in the Bali language not unlike
the Latin service of the Romish Church
they held rosaries in their hands which
rested upon their breasts one of them
had a small Bell by the tinkling of
which their service was regulated and
they occasionally beat the drum and
large bell to rouse Buddha's attention
to their prayers the same words were a
hundred times repeated none of the
officiating persons
showed any interest in the ceremony for
some were looking around laughing and
joking while others muttered their
prayers the few people who were present
not to attend the worship but to gaze at
us did not seem in the least degree to
feel the solemnity of the service end
quote what mr. gouttes law says is
doubtless true but after residing for
months and their temples at different
times and in different parts of the
country I have no hesitation and saying
that such conduct is far from being
general in certain instances I have seen
it myself but this levity and apparent
want of attention was exhibited by the
servants and lookers-on who were taking
no part in the ceremony and not by the
respectable portion of the priests on
the contrary I've generally been struck
with the solemnity with which their
devotional exercises were conducted I
have often walked into Chinese temples
when the priests were engaged in prayer
and although there would have been some
apology for them had their attention
been diverted they went on in the most
solemn manner until the conclusion of
the service as if no foreigner were
present they then came politely up to me
examining my dress and everything about
me with the most earnest curiosity nor
does this apply to priests only the lady
and particularly a female sex seemed
equally sincere when they engage in
their public devotions whether they are
what they appear to be or how often they
are in this pious frame of mind our
questions which I cannot answer before
judging harshly of the Chinese let the
reader consider what effect would be
produced upon the members of a Christian
Church by the unexpected entrance of a
small footed Chinese lady or a mandarin
with the gold button and peacock feather
mounted on his hat and his long tail
dangling over his shoulders I am far
from being an admirer of the Buddhist
priesthood they are generally an
imbecile race and shamefully ignorant of
everything but the simple forms of their
religion but nevertheless there are many
traits of their character not unworthy
of limitation there are two other sects
in China namely the followers of Kong
foods or Confucius and the sect of Dow
or reason although these three sexes
form the principal part of the
population it is well known that there
are a great number of Muhammad
ends and every part of the empire who
are not only tolerated but admitted to
offices under government in the same
manner as the members of the three
established sex Jews are also found in
several districts but more particularly
at a place called Chi Fung in the
province of Hunan the various religious
ceremonies which the Chinese are
continually performing prove at least
that they are very superstitious in all
the southern towns every house has its
temple or alter both inside and outside
the altar in the inside is generally
placed at the end of the principal hall
or shop as the case may be raised a few
feet from the ground and having some
kind of representation of the family
deity placed upon it this is surrounded
with gaudy tinsel paper and on the first
of the Chinese month or other high days
candles and incense are burned on the
table which is placed in front of it the
altar on the outside of the door
resembles a little furnace in which the
same ceremonies are regularly performed
in the vicinity of small villages and
sometimes in the most retired situations
the stranger meets with little Joss
houses or temples gaudily decorated with
paintings and tinsel paper and and stuck
roundabout with the remains of candles
and sticks of incense in almost all
Chinese towns there are shops for the
sale of idols of all kinds and sizes
varying in price from a few cash to a
very large sum many of those exposed for
sale are of great age and have evidently
changed hands several times I am
inclined to believe that the Chinese
exchange those gods which do not please
them for others of higher character in
which they suppose are more likely to
grant an answer to their prayers or
bring prosperity to their homes or their
villages the periodical offerings to the
gods are very striking exhibitions to
the stranger who looks upon them for the
first time when staying at Shanghai in
November 1844 I witnessed the most
curious spectacle in the house where I
was residing it was a family offering to
the gods early in the morning the
principal Hall in the house was set in
order a large table was placed in the
center and shortly afterwards covered
with small dishes filled with the
various articles commonly used as food
by the
Chinese all these were the very best
description which could be procured
after a certain time had elapsed a
number of candles were lighted and
columns of smoke and fragrant odors
began to rise from the incense which was
burning on the table all the inmates of
the house and their friends were clad
and their best attire and in turn came
to koh tao or bow lowly and repeatedly
in front of the table in the altar the
scene although it was an idolatrous one
seemed to me to have something very
impressive about it and whilst I pity
the delusion of our host and his friends
I could not but admire their devotion in
a short time after the ceremony was
completed a large quantity of tinsel
paper made up in the form and shape of
the ingots of silver common in
China was heaped on the floor in front
of the tables the burning incense was
then taken from the table and placed in
the midst of it and the whole consumed
together by and by when the gods were
supposed to have finished their repast
all the articles of food were removed
from the tables cut up and consumed by
people connected with the family on
another occasion when at Ning ball
having been out some distance in the
country it was night and dark before I
reached the east gate of the city near
which I was lodged in the house of a
Chinese merchant the city gates were
closed but two or three loud knocks soon
brought the warder who instantly
admitted me I was now in the widest and
finest street in the city which seemed
in a blaze of light and unusually lively
for any part of a Chinese town after
nightfall the sounds of music fell upon
my air the gong the drum and the more
plaintiff and pleasing tones of several
wind instruments I was soon near enough
to observe what was going on and saw at
a glance that it was a public offering
to the gods but far grander and more
striking than had ever witnessed the
table was spread in the open Street and
everything was on a large and expensive
scale instead of small dishes whole
animals were sacrificed on the occasion
a pig was placed on one side of the
table and a sheep on the other the
former scraped clean in the usual way
and the latter skinned the entrails of
both were removed and on each replaced
some flowers and on
and a knife the other parts of the table
groaned with all the delicacies in
common use amongst the respectable
portion of the Chinese such as falls
ducks numerous compound dishes fruits
vegetables and rice cheers were placed
at one end of the table in which the
gods were supposed to sit during the
meal and chopsticks were regularly laid
at the sides of the different dishes a
blaze of light illuminated the whole
place and the smoke of the fragrant
incense rose up into the air and Reese
had intervals the band struck up their
favorite plaintiff national airs and
altogether the whole scene was one of
the strangest and most curious which it
has ever been my lot to witness there
was another ceremony of a religious
character which I frequently observed in
the northern cities i allude to
processions in honor of the gods I saw
one of them at Shanghai which must have
been at least a mile in length the gods
are Joss's were dressed up in the finest
silks and carried about in splendid
sedan chairs preceded and succeeded by
their numerous devotees superbly dressed
for the occasion and bearing the
different badges of office the dresses
of the officials were exactly the same
of those who form the train of some of
the high mandarins some had a broad fan
made of peacock feathers which they wore
on the sides of their hats others were
clad in glaring theatrical dresses with
low caps and two long black feathers
stuck in them and hanging over the
shoulders like two horns then there were
the ill-looking executioner's with long
conical black hats on their heads and
whips in their hands for the punishment
of the refractory bands of music placed
in different parts of the procession
played at intervals as it proceeded
anxious to see the end of this curious
exhibition I followed the procession
until it arrived at a temple in the
suburbs where it halted the gods were
taken out of the sedan chairs and
replaced with do honours in the temple
from which they had been taken in the
morning here their numerous voter ease
bent low before them burned incense and
left their gifts upon the altar numerous
groups of well-dressed ladies and their
children were scattered over the ground
in the vicinity of the temple
all bending their knees and seemingly
engaged in earnest devotion a large
quantity of paper in the form of the
ingots was heaped up on the grass
as it was brought by the different
devotees and when the ceremonies of the
day were drawing to a close the hole was
burned in honor of or as an offering to
the gods the site was interesting but it
was one which no Christian could look
upon without feelings of the deepest
commiseration in the course of my
travels in China I have often met with
Christian missionaries both Protestant
and Roman Catholic who have been
laboring amongst the Chinese for years
until very lately the efforts of the
Protestants have been chiefly confined
to Macau in Canton since the war however
they have had an opportunity of
extending their operations and some are
now settled at all the new ports which
have been opened for foreign trade as
well as on our island of Hong Kong which
will now become their headquarters the
medical missionaries also act in
conjunction with the others and are of
great use and curing many of the
diseases which prevail in the country
while at the same time the truths of the
Christian faith are presented to the
minds of their patients dr. Lockhart of
the london missionary society who had
established himself in the town of
shanghai had his hospital daily crowded
with patients many of whom had come from
very distant parts of the country all
were attended to in the most skillful
and careful manner without money and
without price the Reverend mr. medhurst
who has labored long and zealously as a
Christian missionary in the East was
also a Shanghai this gentleman is well
known as an eminent Chinese scholar and
besides preaching to the people in their
own tongue he is a printing
establishment with Chinese type
continually at work for the
dissemination of the truths of the
gospel several other gentlemen and their
families had arrived at the same port
previous to my departure and were
closely engaged in the study of the
language ningbo and Amoy were also
occupied by missionaries both from
England and America and I suppose here
this time some have also reached foo Joe
on the river mean from my own experience
of Chinese character and from what I
have seen of the working of the medical
missionary society I am convinced that
it must be a powerful auxiliary
to the missionaries and the conversion
of the Chinese I regret however to say
that up to the present time little
progress appears to have been made one
portion of the people and a large one is
entirely indifferent to religion of any
kind and the rest are so bigoted and
conceded that it will be a most
difficult task to convince them that any
religion is better or pure than their
own the Roman Catholic missionaries
conduct their operations in a manner
somewhat different from the Protestants
they do not restrict themselves to the
outports of the Empire where foreigners
are permitted to trade but penetrate
into the interior and distribute
themselves all over the country one of
their bishops and Italian nobleman
resides in the province of Jiangsu a few
miles from Shanghai where I have
frequently met him he dresses in the
costume of the country and speaks the
language with the most perfect fluency
in the place where he lives he is
surrounded by his converts in fact it is
a little Christian village where he is
perfectly safe and i believe is seldom
if ever annoyed in any way by the
chinese authorities when New Roman
Catholic missionaries arrived they are
met by some of their brethren or their
converts at the port nearest their
destination and secretly conveyed into
the interior the Chinese dress is
substituted for the European their heads
are shaved and in this state they are
conducted to the scene of their future
labors where they commence the study of
the language if they have not learned it
before and in about two years are able
to speak it sufficiently well to enable
them to instruct the people these poor
men submit to many privations and
dangers for the cause they have espoused
and although I do not approve of the
doctrines which they teach I must give
them the highest praise for enthusiasm
and devotion to their faith European
customs habits and luxuries are all
abandoned from the moment they put their
feet on the shores of China parents
friends and home in many instances are
heard of no more before then lies a
heathen land of strangers cold and
unconcerned about the religion for which
they themselves are sacrificing
everything and they know that their
graves will be far away from the land of
their birth and the home of their early
years they seem to have much of the
spirit and enthusiasm of the first
preachers of the Christian
religion when they were sent out into
the world by their divine master to
preach the gospel to every creature and
to obey God rather than man according to
the accounts of these missionaries the
number of converts to their faith is
very considerable but I fear they as
well as the Protestants are often led
away by false appearances and assertions
many of the Chinese are unprincipled and
deceitful enough to become Christians or
infect anything else in name to
accomplish the object they may have in
view and they would become buddhist the
very next day should any inducement be
offered them to do so judging from
appearances the day must yet be very
distant when the Chinese as a nation
will be converted to the Christian faith
could those individuals in our time who
predict the near approach of the
millennium see the length and breadth of
this vast country with its three hundred
millions of souls they would surely
pause and reflect before they publish
their absurd and foolish predictions
well that's it for this week's episode
not a bad one let me explain a couple
things before we sign off fortune
mentions tintin temple the temple of
heaven Leigh boys this place is still
around today about 45 minutes east of
ningbo located in the beautiful tin home
country park tin tungsten lincoln urine
this temple kind of becomes fortunes
office and he returns there many times
in his travels to the tea country of
judge young he also mentions I you one
temple this isn't terribly far from
tenth own temple maybe about 20 minutes
north 12 kilometers for the hills and
forests this temple is named for the
great Indian King Ashoka who reigned 268
to 32 BCE it was built during the
Western Jin in the year 282 but what you
can see today was rebuilt during the
Ching dynasty if you ever find yourself
in ningbo these are a couple of sites
you can knock out in a day Robert
fortune sure had a lot of guts I mean
once you left the safety of the treaty
ports in the city center travelers
really took their life
hands those local thugs who were trying
to roll fortune while it was out on one
of his strolls outside can't on quote
examining the botanical productions as
he said was a good example that was
quite a close call I'm sure you can get
an idea of how lawless and dangerous
these times were for foreigners in China
and especially Europeans it was as if a
contest was always going on to see who
could show the most amount of contempt
for each other I'm sure the Westerners
traders missionaries and people like
fortune wore out their welcome in China
minutes after the Treaty of nanjing was
signed it's no surprise to hear how much
resentment and violence there was
directed against foreigners and the
towns and villages in China where they
passed through a fortune also mentions
silver I'm sure how it's
pronounced but in mandarin it's called
she sue which translates to find silk
what this is people who have been around
Chinatown jewelry stores and in the
Chinese speaking world have seen these
things they are these boat-shaped ingots
of gold or silver it's a symbol of
wealth and this way of shaping silver
and gold ingots has been around since
the days of Qin sure Wong they were also
called it grin ball fortune saw these
things and noticed when Chinese made
offerings that their ancestors they
would burn these boat-shaped ingots made
out of paper in Cantonese it's called
cycie but don't quote me on those tones
fortune spells at sy Cee I'm not sure if
you caught that but he mentioned the
Jews of chi Fong that subject was
discussed in CHP episode 112 I guess in
his day mid 1800s the fame of this
Jewish community in chi phone was known
however if you recall from the episode
this community had seen better days and
was almost gone he sure had a lot to say
about Christianity's prospects in China
not terribly optimistic though he had
plenty of nice things to say about some
of the mish
Aries so that's what I have for you this
time a whole lot more robert fortune to
go before we move on to other
antiquarian gems i have saved up for all
y'all's next episode we're going to take
a look at tea and robert fortunes
observations made on this subject
something he was eminently qualified for
being a first-rate botanist and all the
China been to shower was brought to you
by teacup media the very same platform
that brings you the Chinese same spot
cast and the long-running award-winning
China history podcast check them all out
at tea cup John media let me say that
again that's teacup media until then
this is your host and humble narrator
Lazlo Montgomery wishing you my very
best and hoping maybe you'll consider
joining me next time for some more 19th
century fun and excitement romping
through China with mr. Robert fortune
here at the China vintage our take care
everyone